{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}}\f0\fs241. Laura is running errands, including visiting the grocery store.  Laura was unable to hire a babysitter, so Laura leaves her infant in the car with the windows up on a hot day while she shops.  She leaves her infant for over an hour. She genuinely believes the baby will be fine and does not check the weather forecast. When she returns to the car, her infant has suffocated from the heat and is dead. What is Laura’s mental state?
A. Knowingly
B. Recklessly
D. Purposely\par\par 2. David is an avid hunter.  He owns an expensive shot gun and takes pride in maintaining the gun.  One day, after a hunting trip, David decides to clean his gun and goes to the store to buy the appropriate supplies. While cleaning his gun, a friend rings the doorbell to David’s home, and David lets the friend in.  David is holding the gun.  David points it at his friend as a joke, says “Bang!” and pulls the trigger, not realizing it was loaded. The bullet kills his friend instantly. David had no intention to kill, but he knew the gun was real and had not checked if it was loaded. Which type of malice aforethought, if any, would most likely apply under common law?
A. Intent to kill
B. Intent to inflict grievous bodily harm
D. Felony murder\par\par 3. Chris and Dana are best friends and often play tennis with each other.  However, on occasion, Chris knows from experience that Dana call balls out that are actually in. One evening, during a heated tennis match between the two, Dana calls Chris’s ball out when it is clearly in.  Chris jumps the net and starts arguing with Dana.  Chris calls Dana a “cheat.”  Dana retaliates by calling Chris a “terrible tennis player.”  Chris angrily pokes Dana in the forehead with his finger and says, “Don’t talk to me like that.” Dana is not injured but finds the touch degrading and insulting. What is the most accurate classification of Chris’s conduct under common law?
A. No crime – no injury occurred
B. Assault – Dana feared being harmed
D. Aggravated battery – use of force causing harm\par\par 4. Diane is a cashier at a local electronics store. One afternoon, Jake enters the store and picks up an expensive pair of headphones. Jake approaches Diane at the register and says, “The manager told me I could have these for 50% off as a promotional gift.” Diane knows the independently owned electronics store’s sales have been suffering and that her boss is coming up with ideas to boost sales.  Diane, figuring her boss has started a promotional campaign, rings up the sale, and Jake leaves with the headphones without paying the actual full price. What is the most appropriate common law offense that Jake has committed?
*A. Larceny
B. Embezzlement
D. No crime\par\par 5. Ava and Jenny became roommates right before they started law school.  They did not know each other, but found each other through an iPhone app called, “MatchMe: The Roommate Solution.”  Jenny turns out to be extremely dirty and messy, even in the common areas of their apartment.  Ava gets anxiety when she is around those types of environments. Ava, who fervently watches true crime show, decides to poison Jenny using a technique she learned from “Dateline: True Crime Stories”.  She pours toxic chemicals into a cup of coffee and places it on the kitchen table, knowing Jenny will drink it. Before Jenny arrives, Ava changes her mind and dumps the coffee. What is the most appropriate charge under common law? *A. Attempted murder
B. Voluntary Manslaughter
*C. No crime – she changed her mind before harm occurred
D. Battery – placing poison in food counts as contact\par\par 6. Ella goes to school with a bully named Leo.  Leo often teases Ella by calling her a “teacher’s pet.”  One day Leo approaches Ella and for the hundredth time, calls her that name. Ella is fed up, and she calmly says to Leo, “I’m going to hit you next week.” She makes no sudden movements and shows no indication of acting on the threat right away. Leo is upset but does not think she is about to strike him. How would this be classified under common law?
A. Assault – frightening type
B. Assault – attempted battery
D. Battery – by implied threat\par\par 7. Diane is a cashier at a local electronics store. One afternoon, Jake enters the store and picks up an expensive pair of headphones. Jake approaches Diane at the register and says, “The manager told me I could have these for 50% off as a promotional gift.” Diane knows the independently owned electronics store’s sales have been suffering and that her boss is coming up with ideas to boost sales.  Diane, figuring her boss has started a promotional campaign, rings up the sale, and Jake leaves with the headphones without paying the actual full price. What is the most appropriate common law offense that Jake has committed?
A. Larceny
*B. Embezzlement
D. No crime\par\par 8. Marcus, a college student struggling with debt, decides to burglarize his chemistry professor’s office to steal valuable lab equipment. He studies the building schedule for days, obtains a fake faculty ID, and plans to break in late one evening using a copied key he made during office hours. On the night of the planned burglary, Marcus walks up to the building and places his hand on the door handle. As he’s about to enter, he has a moral reckoning and realizes he cannot go through with the crime. He leaves the campus and throws away the fake ID and the key. The next day, Marcus confesses his plan to his roommate, who informs campus security. Marcus is arrested and charged with attempted burglary. The state statute provides that “abandonment is an affirmative defense to attempt if it is both voluntary and complete.” Which of the following best describes Marcus’s potential liability?
A. Marcus is not guilty because he never actually entered the building.
C. Marcus is guilty because planning and intent alone are sufficient for attempt.
D. Marcus is guilty because he committed a substantial step and cannot abandon an attempt once it begins.\par\par 9. D is a 13-year-old refugee from Chazmodia.  Chazmodians are a fiercely proud and explosively emotional people, and they really hate being called "Chads."  D is no exception.  While walking home from school, a group of boys start taunting D by calling him a "dirty chad."  As they follow D down the street and repeatedly call him a "dirty chad," one of the boys picks up a rock and swings his arm in D’s direction.  Shaking with anger and fear, D picks up a piece of wood with a nail in it.  When one of the boys, V, gets too close, D blindly lashes out, hitting V's head with the protruding nail and causing V serious bodily injury. If the boy's wounds are fatal, which of the following is most true?
A. D would have a good chance of being found not guilty because his act was not voluntary.
C. D would have a good chance of being found guilty based on his unreasonable defense of criminal negligence.
*D. D would have a good chance of being found not guilty based on a defense of involuntary manslaughter.\par\par 10. D's mother, V, has Lou Gehrig's disease and cannot take care of herself.  D moves into his mother's house to take care of her.  Because the disease is in an advanced stage, V is unable to breathe well without oxygen.  One evening, D and V discuss whether V should continue the oxygen treatments.  V decides that once her current oxygen tank runs out of air, she will leave her fate up to God because she believes God will heal her.  V calls her other two children to tell them what she has decided so that all her children understand her wishes. The next day, V's oxygen tank runs out of air and V begins wheezing.  As the day progresses, V's breathing becomes much more labored and difficult.  The next day, V lips turn blue because she is not getting enough oxygen.  V panics and asks that D hook up another oxygen tank.  D states, “I am going to honor your wishes and not hook up another oxygen tank.”  As the day wears on, V becomes more lethargic and ultimately slips into a coma.  V dies the next day. Under what circumstances did D probably have a legal obligation to summon medical assistance for his mother?
*A. D had a religious duty to help his mother when he realized that God was not going to heal her.
B. D volunteered to help his mother because his mother had been good to him as a child.
C. D had a moral duty to help his mother when he realized she was panicking because she could not breathe.\par\par 11. D and V are playing cards with a group of students.  V decides he wants pizza and asks D to go pick it up.  D, who lives in the dorm, does not have a car.  V tells D, "You can take my car if you will go get the pizza."  D drives off in V's car.  As D is driving to the pizza shop, he decides to take V's car for himself, although D will tell V that V's car was stolen at the pizza shop.  D is charged with larceny.  In this jurisdiction custody is defined as “gaining control for a specific purpose.” Which of the following is true? *A. The jury should find D guilty of larceny.
B. The jury should find D guilty of embezzlement.
C. The jury should find D guilty of attempted larceny.
D. The jury should find the D guilty of attempted embezzlement.\par\par 12. Gerry’s sister, Susan, owned an Apple store in downtown Seattle.  She was very successful, and their parents would often brag about Susan to their friends, which frustrated Gerry.  Gerry was not as successful, making a decent living as a car mechanic, but a job that his parents considered “menial.”  Alice always encouraged Gerry, and she and Gerry were close.  Gerry worked with several young men who played computer games online. Gerry wanted to get involved with the online gaming community, but he could not afford a computer.  He asked Alice if he could borrow an Apple computer from her store.  Alice thought it was a great idea and said, “You can borrow a computer for three weeks, and if you like it, I will sell it to you on an installment plan so that you can afford it.  Please do not use it to pay bills because I do not want your passwords on it in case you do not buy it.”  Gerry agrees and takes the computer home.  After two weeks, Gerry knows he wants to keep the computer, but he realizes he does not even earn enough to make installment payments.  Gerry tells Alice that someone stole the computer out of his car, so that he can keep it without paying for it. Alice believes his story. Gerry has committed which of the following? *A. Larceny because he took custody of the computer. Larceny because he took title of the computer. Larceny because he took lawful possession of the computer. Larceny because he took ownership of the computer.\par\par 13. D decides it is finally time to get back at rival gang leader, V, who has made aggressive moves for months.  D devises a plan to lure V to a secluded park where D can beat him up without attracting attention. D calls V, telling V to meet him at a park and says, “V, I have one of your fellow gang members here, and I am going to kill him if you do not meet me at this park.” V, anxious about saving his fellow gang member and driving fast, is on his way to the park when he loses control of his car, drives over a cliff, and dies in a fiery crash.  Later, the police become aware of D's plan and arrest him for causing the death of V. D has a plausible defense based on which of the following? *A.	Legal (proximate) causation.
B. Cause-in-fact causation.
C. Voluntary manslaughter.
*D. Negligent homicide.\par\par 14. D, a Minnesota high school student, age 17, is accused of stabbing her newborn daughter to death after secretly giving birth in her mother's laundry room.  She is charged with intent to kill murder and faces a possible sentence of life in prison. Which of the following is the best evidence for the prosecutor?
A. The evidence shows that D killed her newborn while in a state of hysteria.
B. The evidence shows that D, after killing her newborn, wrote a suicide note.
*C. The evidence shows that D killed her newborn while she was in a drunken stupor.\par\par 15. D checks his coat at a restaurant and then gets drunk.  While eating dinner, D sees V leave the restaurant carrying a coat that D believes is hers.  D wrestles the coat away from V, takes it home, and then after sobering up, realizes that the coat really was V's all along. Which of the following best describes the jury's options?
*A. Convict D, because at the time she took the coat, her belief was unreasonable.
B. Convict D, because after she took the coat, she unreasonably changed her mind after sobering up.
D. Acquit D, if at the time she took the coat, she unreasonably believed that the coat belonged to V.\par\par 16. D takes Hydrocodone for her chronic back pain.  D notices that her pills are running out before her next prescription is due for renewal.  D suspects that her 12-year-old son, X, is taking them from her medicine cabinet.  Penal Code sec. 999 provides:  "Supplying any prescription drug to any person to whom such drugs have not been prescribed is a felony in the third degree."  A court has interpreted sec. 999 as requiring at least a reckless intent. D could be convicted of violating Penal Code sec. 999 based on all the following except which answer? *A.	D did not know that her son was stealing the drugs, yet the only two people that lived in her house were her and her son, and she did nothing to prevent someone from taking her drugs.
B. D knew that her son was stealing the drugs, yet she did nothing to prevent him from doing so.
C. D was practically certain that her son was stealing the drugs, yet she did nothing to prevent him from doing so.
D. D had the purpose of supplying the drugs to her son, yet she told him not to take too many pills per day because doing so would cause him to become addicted to the pills.\par\par 17. D is a pedophile who trolls the internet for children.  D participates in a pedophile ring.  D and the head of the ring, D2, discuss strategies for luring children into their automobiles.  Subsequently, D and D2 meet and start driving the streets in search of their next victim.  Unbeknownst to D, D2 is an undercover police officer.  D2 arrests D, and the prosecutor subsequently charges D with attempted sexual assault on a minor.  The crime of sexual assault on a minor is a strict liability crime. Which of the following is the best answer? *A.	D is guilty because he intended to commit the targeted offense.
B. D is not guilty because D lacked the intent to carry out the crime.
C. D is guilty when he initially contemplated trolling the internet for children.
D. D is not guilty because D2 feigned agreement with D.\par\par 18. A federal statute makes it a crime to "own or possess a land mine."  The courts have held that the statute is a strict liability crime.  D's father, a WWII veteran, recently died, and D inherited the contents of his father's war keepsake trunk.  D loaded up the trunk and drove towards his home.  On the way home, police pulled D over for a broken taillight.  During a search of D's car, police found an old German WWII land mine in the keepsake trunk.  D was charged with possessing a land mine. The prosecution must prove which of the following? *A.	D had a land mine in his car.
*B. D was aware, based on his father's war stories, that the trunk contained an old WWII land mine.
C. D was practically certain that the trunk contained an old WWII land mine.
D. D should have known, based on his father's war stories, that the trunk contained an old WWII land mine.\par\par 19. Late one evening, Dana walks past a jewelry store that has a broken side door. Curious and opportunistic, she pushes the door open wider and steps inside. Dana is unarmed and does not plan to hurt anyone. She wants to steal an expensive watch she saw in the display earlier that day. However, after hearing a strange noise from the back room, Dana gets scared and runs out without taking anything. The next morning, police find her fingerprints on the door. She is arrested and charged with burglary under common law. Is Dana guilty of common law burglary?
A. No, because she did not commit a felony once inside the building.
C. Yes, because she broke and entered at night with the intent to commit larceny therein.
*D. Yes, because entering any structure with intent to steal is sufficient for burglary at common law.\par\par 20. D buys artifacts from backcountry folks who illegally dig in archeological sites.  The Native Artifacts Protection Act makes it a crime to sell or otherwise deal in such items without proper permits, which D does not have.  Last week Backcountry Bill sold D some pottery with native designs and D later offered it as “the genuine article” to an undercover agent.  Even though it turns out that the pottery is a recent imitation made in the Far East, D is accused of attempt to violate the Act. Which of the following is true?
A. D should have a good chance of avoiding conviction on the ground that it was, under the circumstances, a factual impossibility for him to violate the Act.
B. D should have a good chance of avoiding conviction on the ground that it was, under the circumstances, a legal impossibility for him to violate the Act.
*C. D should have a good chance of avoiding conviction on the ground that it was, under the circumstances, both a factual and legal impossibility for him to violate the Act.\par\par 21. D, a naturalist and avid wild game hunter, has been indicted under a statute that makes it a crime to "import products made from any endangered species."  He was arrested at JFK Airport trying to enter the country with a pair of mittens, which were made with polar bear fur, and polar bears are an endangered species.  While the statute does not make any mention of intent, courts have interpreted the statute as requiring a reckless intent. All the following describe evidence that a jury could use to convict D based on the proper intent except for which answer?
A. D entered a fur store in Russia and asked for polar bear mittens.
B. D entered a fur store in Russia, winked at the clerk, and asked for white bear fur mittens.
D. D entered a fur store in Russia and asked for white fur mittens, knowing that white fur in Russia comes almost exclusively from polar bear hides.\par\par 22. D and V dated for two years.  During their relationship, V sent D naked pictures.  After the couple broke up, D sent the pictures to all her friends, including V's sister.  V later committed suicide by shooting himself in the mouth.  V left a suicide note explaining how embarrassed he was that someone he once loved would do something as cruel as sending out his private pictures. Which of the following is D's best defense to a murder charge?
*A. V's suicide was a substantial factor in his death.
B. V's suicide was an intervening cause of his death.
D. V's suicide occurred two months after D released the pictures.\par\par 23. D is a taxi driver in New York City.  On the way to the airport to pick up fares, D becomes drowsy.  D stops at a local coffee shop and grabs a cup of coffee to combat her drowsiness.  D continues to the airport, picks up a couple, and drives them back toward Manhattan.  On the way to Manhattan, D falls asleep and runs over and kills a bicyclist.  D is charged with and convicted of involuntary manslaughter. If D appeals her conviction, which of the following should occur to her conviction? *A.	Affirmed because D chose to drive in a physical condition that could result in her sleeping at the wheel.
B. Affirmed because D unintentionally drove the fare from the airport to Manhattan.
C. Reversed because D did not mean to kill the bicyclist.
D. Reversed because D did not have the necessary intent for the crime.\par\par 24. D’s route to work and back home included walking through a dangerous part of town.  One night, X, a ten-year-old boy, approached D.  X asked D to give him ten dollars.  X had his hand in his pocket when he made the request.  D was afraid X was going to shoot him with a gun or stab him with a knife.  When X again asked D to give him ten dollars, D panicked, pulled a knife out of his pocket, and stabbed X to death.  D is charged with murder. Which of the following is D's best argument? *A.	D's honest but unreasonable belief that he needed to use deadly force should negate the malice for murder; thereby the jury should convict him of voluntary manslaughter.
B. D's honest but unreasonable belief that he needed to use deadly force should negate the malice for voluntary manslaughter; thereby the jury should convict him of involuntary manslaughter.
C. D's honest but unreasonable belief that he needed to use deadly force should negate the malice for involuntary manslaughter; thereby the jury should convict him of criminal negligence.
D. D's honest but unreasonable belief that he needed to use deadly force should negate the malice for murder; thereby the jury should convict him of attempted voluntary manslaughter.\par\par 25. Jordan is a warehouse supervisor at a distribution center. One of his duties is to ensure that all packages marked “hazardous materials” are properly stored in a secure, locked facility on-site. One afternoon, an employee, Miguel, asks Jordan to unlock the secure facility so he can drop off some packages. Jordan, distracted by a phone call, glances at the boxes and—without checking their labels—unlocks the door and tells Miguel to “just put them in there.” Unbeknownst to Jordan, one of the boxes contains improperly labeled industrial solvents that are not permitted to be stored in that facility without a special EPA clearance. A surprise inspection by a government agency later that day reveals the violation, and Jordan is charged under a statute making it a misdemeanor to store certain hazardous substances in an unauthorized facility, regardless of intent or knowledge. Which of the following is most accurate under common law principles regarding strict liability? *A. Jordan is likely guilty because his conduct fits the statute, and the government is not required to prove mens rea for a strict liability offense.
B. Jordan is not guilty because he lacked intent and was unaware that the material was improperly labeled.
*C. Jordan is not guilty because Miguel, not Jordan, placed the hazardous materials in the facility.
D. Jordan is guilty only if the prosecution proves that a reasonable supervisor would have double-checked the labels.\par\par 26. V, a member of a rival gang, humiliated one of the Websley Street Boys by calling him a “sissy.”  As a result, seven Websley members headed into the other gang’s territory looking for V and seeking revenge.  As weapons they brought metal baseball bats, which they openly carried up and down the streets as they tried to find V.  When the seven members located V, they ran towards him with their baseball bats raised, however, the police stopped and arrested them before they could catch V. Would the police have a sound legal basis to intervene and charge the seven with attempted assault?
A. Yes, because the members actions were menacing.
*B. No, because the members' actions were mere preparation in the assault.
D. No, because the member's actions were in mere anticipation of the assault.\par\par 27. D lives across the street from V.  D really wants to take V's iPod.  To do so, D trains his dog, Trigger, to pick up objects.  One day, D sees V sitting in his front yard listening to his iPod.  V's mother calls him into the house, but V leaves his iPod sitting on the front porch.  D commands Trigger to "go get it boy!"  Trigger goes to the porch and grabs the iPod in his mouth, but drops the iPod in the middle of the street before returning to D.  D, scared, runs into the house, and leaves the iPod lying in the street. Which of the following is true?
*A. D has committed larceny.
C. D has committed embezzlement.
D. D has committed attempted embezzlement.\par\par 28. D is a high school student known for her school pranks.  One day during choir, V is sitting on the ground in front of D.  Because V is leaning forward, D can see down the back of V's pants.  As a joke, D drops a handful of pennies down V's pants so that when V stands up to leave the room, the pennies fall down V's pants and out the bottom of his jeans, causing V embarrassment. D is charged with battery; which of the following is the best answer? *A.	D should be found guilty because she touched V offensively.
*B. D should be found not guilty because she touched V but did not physically harm him.
C. D should be found guilty because she caused V bodily injury.
D. D should be found not guilty because she touched D in a joking manner.\par\par 29. D robs a convenience store armed with an assault rifle.  During the robbery, X walks by and sees D pointing a gun at the cashier.  X fires her own gun through the plate glass window of the store intending to hit D, but instead she kills V, an innocent bystander.  D is charged with murder. Under what theory of homicide would the prosecution have to charge D with, even if the charge is ultimately unsuccessful?
A. Premeditated murder.
*C. Intentional murder.
D. Voluntary murder.\par\par 30. D was arrested in the Gallery Mall.  He had gone there to meet a person that he thought would be a 15-year-old girl that he had chatted with online. In fact, D’s Internet chats had been with a police officer merely pretending to be a teenager.  D’s defense attorney argued that the sentence should be lenient because no actual harm was done.  The prosecutor replied that D should receive a long prison term because statistics show that he would probably repeat the offense once he got out of prison and a long sentence would discourage D from doing so once he was released. In so arguing, which of the traditional purposes of punishment does the prosecutor appear to have in mind?
A. Retribution.
*B. General deterrence.
D. Rehabilitation.\par\par 31. D and V are walking down the hallway at school.  D accidentally trips, hits his head on an open locker door, and is knocked out cold for over a minute.  During the time D is knocked out and lying on the floor, D's legs start flailing uncontrollably, and D kicks V in the shin and breaks V's leg. Which of the following describes D's best defense?
A. D kicked V because of his attempts to stand back up.
C. D kicked V because of his recklessness.
*D. D kicked V because of his negligence.\par\par 32. D and his wife, V, are divorcing.  One night, D confronts V about her attempts to get full custody of their children.  As D and V talk, their voices begin to rise in anger.  V throws an empty wine bottle at D and yells, "You will not get shared custody of the children because you are a no-good, lazy loser." D reacts by punching the wall while yelling, "I hate you witch!"  V yells "go home idiot" and turns to walk toward her bedroom.  An angry and hurt D takes out his pocketknife and stabs V in the back 15 times while repeatedly yelling "you will not take my children from me!  I love those children as much as you do!"  V dies from her stab wounds.  D is charged with murder. Which of the following is true if D succeeds in arguing that he acted in the heat of passion?
A. The jury may use the heat of passion evidence to reduce voluntary manslaughter to involuntary manslaughter.
B. The jury may use the heat of passion evidence to negate "negligently causing serious bodily injury."
*C. The jury may use the heat of passion evidence to acquit D of murder.\par\par 33. D has lived his entire life in Hawaii.  Last winter, during his first visit to a cold weather climate, he rented a van.  The morning after his arrival, D drove the van onto the interstate highway not realizing that a dangerous layer of snow and ice had accumulated on the van roof overnight.  As the van warmed up and the roof ice started to melt, a large chunk blew off and hit the car following D.  The driver of the car following D lost control and fatally injured a pedestrian. In determining whether D's actions were the legal (proximate) cause of the pedestrian's death, the jury would have to consider which of the following?
A. Whether but, for D's actions, would the death of the pedestrian have occurred.
*B. Whether the other driver's action of losing control of the vehicle was a joint but severable cause of the pedestrian's death.
D. Whether but, for D's action of driving with ice on his truck, D would have caused the pedestrian's death.\par\par 34. D asked X to help him rob a bank.  X agreed.  D later robbed the bank without X. Which of the following is the best answer?
*A. D is guilty of robbery if the jury finds that he did not use force to commit the crime.
C. X is not guilty of robbery if the jury finds that she told D, “Use this hammer to scare the teller,” but D does not use the hammer.
D. X is guilty of attempted larceny if the jury finds that D used force to commit the crime.\par\par 35. V gives D a computer to use for three days for internet searches only.  Two days later, D's job transfers him to another state.  D decides to keep the computer.  After D moves, he has a change of heart and mails the computer back to V with a note of apology.  V writes back to let D know that she accepted his apology. Which of the following crimes has D committed? *A.	Larceny.
B. Larceny by trick.
*C. Embezzlement.
D. False pretenses.\par\par 36. Denise and her ex-boyfriend Kyle recently broke up. One evening, Denise sees Kyle dining alone at a local café. Furious over some of the things he said during their breakup, Denise walks up to his table and swings a wine bottle at the back of his head. Kyle, completely unaware of her presence, leans forward at the last second to reach for a napkin, and the bottle narrowly misses him. Denise is arrested shortly afterward. The next day, Denise tells her friend that she regrets missing and that she “really wanted to knock him out.” She is charged under the common law with assault. Which of the following statements is most accurate?
A. Denise committed a frightening assault because swinging the bottle created a reasonable apprehension of harm in Kyle.
B. Denise did not commit any form of assault because Kyle was unaware of the attack and no contact occurred.
D. Denise committed both types of assault because her conduct was both physically threatening and placed Kyle in fear of imminent harm.\par\par 37. All the following acts would probably constitute murder except for which of the following?
A. D hangs around V's home and shoots him as V exits his home.  V dies from his wound.
B. D hangs around V's home and shoots him in the leg so that V cannot escape from D.  V dies from his wound.
*D. D hangs around V's home and threatens to shoot V so that he can take V's wallet.  V dies when D's gun accidently goes off.\par\par 38. Which of the following best shows a reckless indifference to human life?
A. D, while cleaning his gun, accidentally shoots his wife.
B. D, while holding his gun, accidentally shoots his wife.
*C. D, while placing his gun on the table, accidentally shoots his wife.\par\par 39. Amara is a lifeguard at a private beach club, where she is stationed in a tower with a clear view of the water. One afternoon, while on duty, Amara sees a swimmer flailing and calling for help about 40 yards offshore. The swimmer clearly appears to be in distress. Amara watches for a few moments, then looks away and continues scrolling through her phone. Other beachgoers scream for help, but Amara remains seated. The swimmer drowns. An investigation confirms that Amara was trained, certified, and paid to perform lifesaving duties. She is charged under the common law with criminally negligent homicide. Which of the following statements is most accurate under common law principles?
A. Amara cannot be held criminally liable because the failure to act is never sufficient to establish actus reus.
*B. Amara may be held criminally liable because her omission occurred in the absence of any voluntary act, and omissions are punished the same as acts in all cases.
D. Amara cannot be held criminally liable because there is no general duty to rescue under the common law, even if someone is trained to do so.\par\par Type: E
40. One evening, Tamika is driving home after work. She is not drunk or under the influence, but she becomes increasingly annoyed by the traffic. Frustrated and impatient, she begins weaving in and out of lanes on a busy city street at nearly 90 miles per hour, which is more than twice the speed limit. Tamika runs multiple red lights and narrowly misses several cars. As she turns a corner, she plows through a crosswalk, striking and killing a pedestrian who was legally crossing the street.
Tamika is arrested and charged under the common law with criminal homicide. At trial, prosecutors argue that her conduct was so extreme and dangerous that it warrants a murder conviction, while the defense argues that, although Tamika was reckless, she lacked the level of malice necessary for murder.
Which of the following is the most accurate legal conclusion?
A. Tamika is likely guilty of involuntary manslaughter because she acted recklessly but without a depraved heart.
*B. Tamika is likely guilty of depraved heart murder because she acted with extreme recklessness and a conscious disregard for human life.
C. Tamika cannot be convicted of either homicide offense because she did not intend to kill.
D. Tamika is likely guilty only of a traffic offense because the killing was accidental.\line 
ESSAY
(Word Count: 1000)\line John and his wife Cindy are getting a divorce.  Because John and Cindy have little property to divide, they have easily divided their personal assets, including two cars, separate personal property and community property.  They had few disputes.\line However, John and Cindy have two small children.  Both John and Cindy are devoted parents, historically spending as much time with the children as possible. Unfortunately, the custody battle turned heated, and Cindy accused John of frequently neglecting and emotionally abusing the children.  John was devastated, upset, and beside himself.  He knew he needed a high-powered attorney to disprove Cindy’s claims and to argue for legal and physical joint custody.  John searched for an attorney, and he found one with wonderful recommendations.  His attorney, Roger “Tex” Simmons, is an aggressive one who specializes in tough custody battles.  \line John hires Tex, paying for his retainer using a credit card.  John is panicked because he knows he cannot afford Tex but determined to make things work.  He comes up with ways to earn money, some legal and some not.  For instance, he starts running food deliveries for Door Dash on the weekends.  Other schemes are not so noble. John begins breaking into houses found in the wealthy part of town, intending to steal valuable items. \line He breaks into one home one afternoon and while inside, he meets the homeowner, Mary, an elderly woman, who is startled and suffers a heart attack and dies. John flees the scene without stealing anything. John breaks into another house in the neighborhood and is more successful.  He steals a Rolex watch, and some high-priced Tiffany crystal.  Later, John sells the stolen watch to a pawn shop, falsely claiming it is his own. Amazingly, the pawn shop buys the watch for $3000.  As he left the pawn shop, the clerk shouted, “Enjoy your dough, man!”\line John is elated and goes to a bar to celebrate.  At the bar, John drinks three rum and cokes, and the bartender decides to cut him off because John is talking loudly, slurring his speech, and stumbling as he walks around the bar talking to other patrons.  At the bar, John decides to go to one more house and steal some more items.  He is buoyed by confidence because of his drinking.\line The day drinking afternoon has turned into night, and John returns to the neighborhood and sees that a front door is open at one of the most expensive houses in the neighborhood.  John enters the door and spots a silver tea set. It looks old, so he assumes it is made of silver.  He formulates a plan to put the set in a bag he is carrying, but the home’s owner comes into the living room and sees John.  Frightened, John flees the home without the tea set.\line Meanwhile, another incident occurs.  John’s anxiety is through the roof because of the custody battle. One day, as his is driving to Tex’s law firm where they were meeting to discuss upcoming court proceedings.  John must text Tex’s secretary to let her know he is running late.  A police officer sees John texting and driving and tries to pull him over to issue a ticket.  Stressed already, John panics, does not pull over, and leads the officer on a high-speed chase.  He speeds through a neighborhood that has an elementary school with school zones reducing the speed limit to 20 miles per hour on all streets surrounding the school.  As John is racing through the neighborhood driving 50 miles per hour in one of the school zones, he accidentally hits a small child crossing the street to get to school and kills her.\line Discuss the potential criminal charges John could face and any defenses under common law principles.  All crimes in this problem are felonies.  Please organize your answer by type of crime. For example, list all burglaries and attempted burglaries under the heading, “Burglary,” and then discuss any defenses.\par\par }